Welcome to our library studio here as part
of the Yahowah blog.
I am here with our guest co-host, Wookie,
and we are ready to dive back into
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
The Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr, of course,
for those who have listened to this
program over a period of time,
you know that it is my favorite.
There's no psalm, no proverb, no...
prophecy,
no Towrah chapter that I find is as
inspiring, as enlightening, as affirming,
as prophetically important, really,
as the Eighty-Ninth.
And one of the things we have learned
quite recently is that the author of the
Eighty-Ninth is not a relevant character.
He is Ethan Ha Ezrachy.
He was inserted into this position by Yahowah
for this particular purpose.
This Mizmowr was a collaborative effort.
It's also true that Ethan plays a
significant role in the introduction of
the Mizmowr and says some things that are
really interesting,
and there's some things that he says about
Dowd, about himself,
and mostly about Yahowah.
And then there is a two statement opening
Salvo from Yahowah regarding his beloved
son,
followed by more insights from Ethan Ha
Ezrachy
And then we reach the point where it
is really from the eighteenth and
nineteenth statement.
through very close to the end.
It is all in Yahowah's voice and it
is profoundly important,
the things that he has to say.
They're irrefutable,
they're non-transferable,
they're emphatic.
And this Psalm,
completely and without reservation
obliterates the religions of Judaism and
Christianity.
There is literally no room whatsoever for
either religion in light of what God says
about David.
And so we'll jump right back into it.
I do want you to know that there
is more to this than meets the eye
and that
Dowd is a very complex individual.
He is exceptionally bright,
quite articulate, definitely passionate,
absolutely courageous,
but he also has some rough edges,
lots of them.
And this was delivered during the roughest
patch of his life.
He was so far from what he
could have been,
should have been at this point,
that he and Yahowah were not even talking.
God's communications with him were all
indirect.
As for example, in this particular case,
Yahowah revealed his sentiments toward
Dowd,
and the person named as Ethan ha 'Ezrachy
delivered them.
And I think that he was around for
a good portion of Dowd's life.
I think he appeared initially as Obed-Edom
and that he had some role in his
tutelage of Solomon before Solomon also
went the way of his father and became
way too interested in women,
not for the right reasons,
not for their brains or contribution or
character.
but for, well,
you can imagine what else he might have
been interested in.
And this was the same problem with Dowd,
particularly with Bathsheba.
He did not choose wives or lovers well.
It was not his strength.
And he tripped badly over his choice for
Bathsheba, who was not good for him,
for Israel, for the covenant relationship,
or for anything else.
And this was a wake-up call for him.
The good news is we prevailed.
We got his attention.
Dowd came back online.
He accepted who he was.
He realized what was laid before him,
that he would be the Passover lamb,
that he would fulfill Chag Matsah.
He would take our guilt into shield on
Matsah to make us and he not guilty.
So it was a big responsibility that he
was accepting and he would come back as
a result of as king of the world.
And what's remarkable is that Yahowah was
so certain that we would prevail with this
song that he actually goes right back to
the firmness of his position with Dowd.
That Dowd will be the one through whom
he will
create,
literally cut the covenant relationship
that Dowd will be his coworker going
forward on all the things that need to
be accomplished through the Mow'ed Miqra'ey and
returning as king to govern the millennial
Shabbat.
He is a hundred percent back in with
Dowd,
which means that God would not have made
these statements
if he was not assured that this remedy
would work.
And so, you know,
while it is tense and while I want
to bring it to you in the full
flavor of what God said,
I also want you to know that we
prevailed.
The plan played out as it was articulated.
So in the third statement is the first
time that God speaks directly to us.
It's going to be the primary thrust of
the Mizmowr before very long.
But after a introduction by
Ethan ha 'Ezrachy,
which means that he is a perpetually
deployed individual,
that he is inserted in and out of
the timeline when needed to make certain
that God's
people and plan stay on pace.
And that's precisely what his name means.
That is what it conveys to us.
That's what should be understood about
him.
He was the author of the thirty of
the thirty-one Proverbs and five songs,
this being the most dramatic,
most important of them.
So God speaks to us in first person
in the third statement.
It reads, I have established
cutting through separation, karat.
Karat's a very important verb in Hebrew.
When God speaks of his covenant and the
inception of his covenant,
he always uses karat.
And karat is not the same word as
create, that would be bara.
It is not the same word as made,
asha,
the word that would communicate that he
has engaged in or acted upon.
He used...
Karat and karat literally means to cut.
Now we would say in English,
we cut a deal, right?
I'll cut you in on an agreement.
So it's similar from that point of view.
Karat is also used in connection with the
circumcision.
So it means to create by cutting off,
by establishing through separation.
So with karat,
you know that this arrangement that is
being established and cut,
literally is a line in the sand,
a chisel mark and stone.
And you are one side or the other
of it.
You're either in or you're out.
There is no straddling the line.
There is no moving back and forth.
You're in.
or you're out.
So I have established cutting through
separation.
I have created making a resolution by
cutting off,
as in the case of circumcision,
a solemn agreement between the parties
with stipulations, responsibilities,
and benefits.
And this,
the thing that I have established cutting
through separation is the Beryth covenant
for the family.
And he says,
I have done so through my Bachyr,
Ani, which would be through my chosen one.
On behalf of the individual that I have
personally decided upon,
that I have preferred,
that I have selected under the auspices of
free will,
the one I favor for a special relationship
and affections from Bakar to choose to
decide and from bachan to test,
examine and scrutinize.
Now that's a big statement.
that the covenant has been established
through someone,
one individual that God chose.
Guess who God didn't choose?
Jesus.
Bar Kokhba.
Guess who God didn't choose?
Mohammed.
Guess who God did choose?
Dowd.
Should be all there wrote of,
Those three religions,
they're all gone with that one statement.
Because God's going to name the person
that he chose as Dowd.
And the covenant is the essence of the
Towrah.
Look at the book, Bare’syth,
after he gets through creation and the
flood, it goes directly to the formation,
that whole narrative with Abraham and
Sarah to conceive the covenant
relationship.
And it goes some twelve,
fourteen chapters through the initial
book.
So you have creation,
you have the experience in Eden,
you have the flood.
Each of those, by the way,
mirror the covenant itself.
Then you have the covenant and then you
have how the covenant plays out through
Yitschaq and through Jacob and the sons of
Yisrael.
So that is the entire story of Bare'Syth
It's Genesis.
It's all about the covenant.
It's the heart and soul of the Towrah.
It's the cornerstone of the Towrah.
Now,
the covenant is more than just the central
piece of the Towrah.
It is the only way to God.
Now, God has a specific path.
It's Pesach Matsah Bikuwrym, Shabuwah,
Taruwah, Kipurym, and Sukah,
with the first three providing the
benefits of the covenant.
So the only way that you can participate
in Pesach and have it be beneficial to
you is to be in the covenant.
And if you're a man,
you have to be circumcised just to
emphasize this point.
And the guilt that's carried away on
Matsah is that of the covenant's children.
And firstborn children means that we
become part of the covenant family on
Bikuwrym.
So literally,
it is the covenant's benefits that are
being delivered there.
through the first three, Mow'ed, Miqra'ey,
Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
This means that Dowd fulfilled them when
God says, I have cut through separation,
having established the Beryth covenant for
the family through my Bachyr, chosen one,
and I have sworn an oath,
which I will affirm this promise seven
times over, because there are seven Mow'ed,
Miqra'ey, to Dowd.
Ebed Any,
my authorized agent and coworker who
serves with me.
That is, again, that's all she wrote.
There's no other option.
It's the complete obliteration of
Christianity, Judaism,
and Islam with that statement.
There can be no...
co-working Jesus.
There can be no savior Jesus.
There can be no new covenant and there
can be no covenant that is established
with anyone other than with Dowd.
And you can't transfer this because God
said it's to Dowd.
He didn't say it was to whomever you
want it to be.
He didn't say it's to Jesus.
He didn't say it's to Bar Kokhba.
He didn't say it was to Muhammad.
He said it was to Dowd.
Now,
if you wanna pretend that God is so
stupid, so old,
so senile that he doesn't know the name
of his coworker, his authorized agent,
he doesn't know the name of the person
he chose,
of all the people that have ever existed,
the single person most important to him,
the one that he chose above all others,
you wanna say he's not smart enough to
know that man's name?
And yet he's smart enough to fabricate DNA
to create
Two trillion galaxies with a couple of
hundred billion stars apiece.
And you want to tell me you don't
think he knows his son's name?
That's what you're going with, Christian?
Is that the best you got?
Certainly there's no place that says
everything I promised to Dowd is
transferable to somebody else.
In fact,
it says exactly the opposite in this very
psalm.
It says that it's to Dowd, period.
End of conversation.
He is the one.
He is the only one.
And should everything that God has to say
about Dowd not materialize, and God says,
then I will not only have been shown
a liar, but I will have failed.
Even worse.
So I have established cutting through
separation,
the Beryth covenant for the family through
my Bachyr chosen one.
I have sworn an oath that I will
affirm this promise seven times over to
Dowd, even on a,
my authorized agent and coworker who
serves with me.
Furthermore,
as an eternal witness to the restoring
testimony,
I will prepare and establish your
offspring and that which you sow,
you would be Dowd.
In addition,
I have constructed for your throne and for
your seat of honor on behalf of all
generations.
All of this has been established for doed.
He is therefore the returning king,
is he not?
For all time.
He is the one who fulfilled because that's
how the covenant's benefits were
established.
He is the one through whom God chose
to work.
He is God's chosen one.
He is the one.
So Judaism is wrong.
It was established by Rabbi Akiba
promoting Bar Kokhba as the Messiah,
wrong.
lied christianity is wrong it was
conceived with paul writing a letter to
the galatians which was the first time he
introduced the concept of an iosu christu
an imaginary messiah nope wrong sorry no
option here if you want to be informed
and rational you have a singular option
with this opening statement from god
Bam, right in your face.
I have established cutting through
separation, the Beryth, the covenant,
through my Bashir, chosen one.
I have sworn an oath,
and I will affirm this promise seven times
over to Dowd,
my authorized agent and coworker who
serves with me.
Furthermore,
as an eternal witness to the restoring
testimony,
I will prepare and establish your
offspring and that which you sow.
In addition,
I have constructed your throne in your
seat of honor on behalf of all
generations, all dwelling places,
all time.
Pause now and contemplate the
implications.
Ms.
Moore Psalm, eighty-nine, three and four.
Yahowah's Adolam,
eternal and restoring witness,
is found throughout his Towrah, his Naby'ym,
prophets, and Mizmowr, Psalms,
as well as the Mashal, Proverbs.
God revealed everything we need to know
about him, his family,
and the means to be part of it.
In addition to this,
Yahowah interjected Obed-Edom,
serving mankind as Ethan ha 'Ezrachy.
He was initially deployed and prepared
with these logical expressions,
but he has returned as Yada,
one who knows.
He is the nakar, the observing foreigner.
He is the choter stem of the tree
of knowledge.
He is here to serve this door generation
as an ad restoring witness.
So all the twenty five thousand pages of
Amplify translations and resulting
insights available at YadaYah.com for free
and the ten thousand hours of radio
programs and now Yahowah blogs are all a
fairly worthy achievement of the product
of the last twenty five years of my
life and collaboration with Yahowah.
Considering all of the practice, well,
I suspect I should be better at this
by now, but I'm still learning.
And hopefully I'll continue at this pace
and continue to learn.
Well,
I'd like to do so at least for
the next thousand years before we conclude
the celebration,
this opportunity of Chag Sukah.
Fortunately, like every covenant member,
I will improve with time.
experience and maturity.
And of course we have an unlimited access
to both of these things.
And I was talking,
we have Perry here now.
He has actually moved to the U.S.
Virgin Islands, going to be our neighbor,
beginning on a series of projects.
Delighted to have him here.
And we were talking,
and Rich was here for our lunch meeting.
The fact is that all of us who
are working with Yahowah are ordinary
people in extraordinary circumstances.
I think Yahowah may choose slightly better
than ordinary.
He has aptitudes and attitudes that he
likes to exploit.
But the fact is that we're all here
to be examples.
We need to show what God's looking for,
what he expects from us,
how to model that kind of behavior,
what it is like
to be in a loving relationship,
what it is like to work together as
a team,
what it is like to scrutinize his
testimony, to be particularly observant,
to be aware of what he has said,
to contemplate all of the implications of
it,
to exercise good judgment regarding it,
to respond to him,
to make a contribution to the
relationship, and of course,
to even go beyond all of that and
to show
that when we, because we are human,
make mistakes along the way,
we can learn from them and grow as
a result of them.
We can demonstrate our trustworthiness by
correcting the record and benefiting all
of us from what we have learned.
When we stumble and fall,
we can show that we're resilient.
We get up,
that God can depend upon us,
and so can you.
So while not one in a billion Christians
recognizes that God has preemptively
launched twenty four broadsides against
Christianity and Judaism already.
And we're still in the fourth verse.
Clearly, I was aware that Paul would
predicate the dismissal of the Towrah on
the notion of Zera, seed,
when associated with Abraham and calling
it singular.
He said, therefore,
we can bypass the inscription of the Towrah
in addition to the thousand years of
Yahuwdym between Abraham and Dowd and the
two thousand years of Israelites and the
covenants thereafter because it was
Abraham's seed.
that would receive blessings.
That was the basis,
the foundation of his thesis.
However,
seed is always intended to be plural.
Offspring is many.
God's quite clear in that regard,
so he misappropriated the term.
And here now,
we're hearing that it's the seed,
the offspring of Dowd,
that is going to be the beneficiaries here
for all time.
And, well, Dowd was, what,
four hundred years after the Towrah was
revealed?
Therefore,
the very foundation of Paul's letter to
the Galatians,
which is the
foundational floor,
the basis of what Christianity was
conceived upon, is a lie.
So is the rest of the letters that
he wrote,
so that shouldn't be a big surprise.
So the seed Dowd has sown will be
cultivated, it will be harvested,
particularly on Shabuwah and Taruwah,
those who will be taken home during the
fourth and fifth Miqra'ey, our covenant,
and therefore Dowd's offspring.
This is affirmed by the realization that
Shabuwah is actually a Bikuwrym harvest.
So as we discovered when contemplating the
prophecy about homes,
who builds them and who lives them,
that's found in second Samuel seven,
Yahowah told his son that he would
establish his throne forever,
the kingdom of Dowd forevermore.
And now we know that Yahowah himself will
be building the palatial residence in
which our king will reside.
You can imagine that it will be stately.
More than this,
even when addressing that which will be
everlasting,
God spoke of the construction of Dowd's
seat of honor using the perfect example.
Conjugation,
affirming that it had already been
constructed, and indeed it has because,
well, his throne,
as I have shared many times,
is the Kapporeth.
It's the mercy seat of the Ark of
the Covenant.
It's why I like to see depictions of
the Ark of the Covenant done such that
they reflect the room that it was
originally housed in,
where you had the cherubim in the corner.
So their body was in the corner and
they had a wing down one wall and
perpendicular to it,
the back wall would be their other wing.
And then the other cherubim was on the
other corner, one wing going this way,
the other wing going that way.
That's exactly the same thing that's
modeled on the Ark of the Covenant.
You're going to see,
if this was the edge here of my
seat, a wing that would go forward,
kind of like an armrest, really,
and then the other one that goes halfway
across the back.
And then it's met on the other side
with a wing that goes halfway across the
back and one that goes forward.
So you can literally sit in it.
It's kind of like you would have,
like this is a chair,
with arms that's below the table so you
can't see it,
but I think you could probably hear me
punch it there.
It's the same thing.
That's what we're going to have.
It's going to be the Kaporeth.
It's the mercy seat of the Ark of
the Covenant.
That's going to be his throne, and
I mean,
he's not going to be sitting on his
throne a lot.
You know,
God doesn't do pomp and ceremony that way.
But what he is saying is that his
seat of honor,
his position will be everlasting.
The kingdom of Dowd will never end.
Kise is also a loaded term.
It speaks of covering and concealing
because that's the basis of Kaffar,
which is the basis of Yowm Kipurym,
which is the day of reconciliations.
talking about, so that's covering.
The concealment is on Matsah when Dowd took
our guilt and took it into Sheowl,
which is equivalent of black hole to
deposit it there and never to be seen
again.
That would be concealing it, would it not?
So that part of it is appropriate.
And then we also learn that Kise speaks
of a full moon and talks about the
things that take place on a full moon
and the blowing of the shofar on the
new moon.
So the new moon would represent,
for example, Taruwah,
always takes place on a new moon,
first day of the seventh month.
You have four of the Mow'ed and Miqra'ey
that take place on a full moon.
The three that Dowd fulfill, Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikurwym,
are always on a full moon.
And so is Sukah,
because they were on the fourteenth,
fifteenth,
and sixteenth day of a lunar month,
with the lunar month being...
or no, fourteen and a half days long.
So, twenty-nine days in a lunar month,
fourteen and a half days in the cycle,
so fourteen, fifteen.
is when the full moon occurs.
Sixteen is pretty close to a full moon.
Then you're looking at Sukah,
which would also,
on the fifteenth day of a new month,
would also be a full moon.
So it speaks of the full moon and
the new moon.
The new moon would be on Taruwah.
Those are the most important days relative
to the relationship between the sun and
the moon.
God speaks of them in the first chapter.
of Bare’syth in Genesis one on the
fourth day,
speaking how the lesser luminary as the
moon will reflect the greater luminaries,
the sun's light as signs of these Mowedym,
these restoring witnesses to the eternal
testimony that are the seven meeting times
we have with Yahowah.
So there is a connection to the moon,
a connection to covering,
a connection to concealing,
that would be Matsah and Kipurym,
as well as the Mercy Seat being the
prestigious location of Dowd's throne and
it existing forevermore.
So this is really quite a statement.
It of course is the very thing that
Obed-Edom assisted Dowd in relocating into
Jerusalem.
And that was right before his meltdown,
but Obed-Edom played an extremely
important role.
Obed-Edom is the same man that later
Much later, three thousand years later,
Yashayah Isaiah says that the man from
Edom, dressed in red,
coming out of the wine vat,
treading in there with Isaiah himself,
will save many.
So this is a reappearing character,
Obed-Edom,
just like Ethan ha 'Ezrachy is a reoccurring
player by basis of his name alone.
So lots of things to ponder there.
So in spite of Yahowah's unequivocal
declaration,
and it is certainly unequivocal in this
regard,
there are billions who carry around a book
containing this prophecy who still believe
that Jesus will claim God's throne and
prove God a liar.
That's pretty stupid.
And then there are millions of Jews who
are not smart enough to know the name
of their returning Messiah and King,
even though God gave it to them.
It's a wonder Yahowah despises religion and
will exterminate the religious prior to
his return.
He must.
While ignorance is contagious here on
earth, according to the next statement,
that isn't the case in heaven.
And so as we proceed after listening to
God extol Dowd's role in our lives,
the following assessment is from Ethan Ha
'Ezrachy
And having spent considerable time in
Shamaym, at this point, you know,
he had spent about twenty four hundred
years with Yahowah in Shamaym.
He probably had a couple of insertions,
one notable around the time of Moshe and
the Exodus.
But otherwise,
he's been mostly in Shamaym ever since God
chose him and took him there as Chanowk.
And so he knows his way around Shamaym.
He knows exactly who Yahowah is,
what he is perceived to be,
what he has promised to do.
When he speaks of Yahowah,
he knows of whom he speaks.
And that's why he's so forthright in this
regard.
And he's going to tell you two things
about God that are essential for you to
know.
He's already brought them up and he will
underscore them.
So he is aware that also being in
Shamaym, he has witnessed the future,
he knew exactly
what Dowd would do.
He knew that this solution that God had
conceived when implemented would prevail
and that Dowd would return to the
relationship with Yahowah,
their lines of communication would open
back up,
their love for one another would abound
and that Dowd would indeed continue to be
Yahowah's chosen one and that he would
establish the covenant.
And Yahowah made it all possible and heaven
knows it.
The text reads, the spiritual realms
knowingly express and they appreciate.
They, yada,
they are aware of and they understand so
as to extol,
properly attributing and expressing
gratitude.
It is from yada, which means to know,
to recognize and to acknowledge your
wonderful and marvelous contribution and
your miraculous accomplishment.
Now this was interesting in that it was
singular.
It's Piel, Atah.
Both are singular.
So your masculine singular,
that would be Atah.
Amazing achievement.
Masculine, singular.
So your wonderful and marvelous
contribution and your miraculous
accomplishment is something the spiritual
realms of the heaven know and express.
They appreciate.
So God's talking about one thing here,
and it's an extraordinary fulfillment
which distinguishes Yahowah.
in addition to your trustworthiness and
reliability, your Emuwnah,
in the company and community of the
set-apart.
So that means that in Shamaym there are
people that are set-apart unto Yahowah.
These would be individuals like Abraham
and Sarah,
Yitschaq and Jacob would all be in that
company.
Noach and his family would be in that
Obviously, Dowd will be here shortly.
And so this is the company of the
set apart.
These are the Qodeshym,
those who are separated and dedicated with
essential divine qualities and status.
So the first thing we should be thinking
of that if your intent is to be
among those who get to visit or better
earn the right to live in Shamaym, well,
it's helpful to know what the current
inhabitants think about Yahowah's
miraculous contribution to the covenant
through Dowd.
And I think that he has already answered
and told us precisely, excuse me,
has told us precisely what is that
marvelous contribution.
What did he say?
That he had cut the covenant with his
chosen one, with Dowd,
with whom he made this promise,
his coworker.
So cutting of the covenant.
That requires the fulfillment of Chag
Matsah.
Chag Matsah is a one event that
encapsulates Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
That's that one event.
So he's answered that question.
And according to heaven,
the fulfillment of Chag Matsah in
collaboration with Dowd is the greatest
achievement ever.
So I think it's particularly interesting
because their appreciation is directed
towards the singular Pele achievement.
And as a result,
there can only be one of two related
things.
Either heaven is celebrating the
restoration of the son's relationship with
the father,
which at this point is a fait accompli.
They know it in advance because of the
tenor of this that takes place.
There is no place where God said, boy,
I hope we prevail or this is what
I want again.
This is what I'd like.
I want to have a great relationship with
my son.
No,
it's a fait accompli all the way through.
It's emphatic.
So it can't be that.
Therefore, it's only one thing,
which is it's not this maskyl that is
the identity of that one miraculous event.
It is those in Yahowah's collaboration and
the fulfillment of Chag Matsah.
It would be in this way that God
demonstrated his covenant promises,
showing that they were reliable and that
he could be implicitly trusted.
Those who have done so now reside in
Shamaym, living in God's company.
That is why they expressed that previous
sentiment.
Therefore, the residents of Shamaym,
heaven, all know and appreciate Yahowah.
So, shouldn't we here on earth?
One Pele, marvelous achievement by God,
is viewed as Pele, particularly wonderful.
Yahowah's Pele,
most marvelous contribution to our
well-being, was facilitated through Dowd.
Keeping track,
the twenty-eighth statement would be the
Pele most distinguishing act of God is the
creation of the covenant, which he did,
which he achieved through his chosen one
and coworker.
Twenty-nine would be with his Pele amazing
achievement,
Yahowah affirmed that he is emuwnah,
trustworthy and dependable.
He delivered on his promise.
And thirty, in Shamaym, heaven,
God is accompanied by the Qodeshym,
the set apart,
and they are there for that reason that
they're set apart.
All right, so as a result,
Ethan makes the following statement by
asking a question.
By contrast,
who as a speck of dust in the
skies of the material realm
is as valuable as and can be compared
or equated to Yahowah.
He's saying there is even a speck of
sand,
of dust in the skies and the entire
material realm and all of the galaxies and
stars that can be compared to Yahowah.
Who is similar to or even remotely
resembles or thinks like Yahowah among the
children of the Almighty?
God's thoughts are so far above ours.
The very mentality of God is just so
radically different than all of the gods
that men have made in their own image.
He just literally has nothing in common
with religious gods,
including the
God of Judaism, Christianity,
and especially Islam.
Now the universe is composed, as you know,
and I've shared,
of at least two trillion galaxies.
They average hundreds of billions of stars
in each.
Not that we can fathom anything on this
scale, but for reference,
Ethan is saying that false gods like
Jesus, Hashem,
or Allah are one to the zero power
compared to the ten to the fifty-seventh
power atoms.
Ten with fifty-seven zeros after atoms.
And the average star alone
multiplied by four times ten to the
eleventh power stars in a galaxy,
times two to the tenth to the twelfth
power of these massive gatherings of solar
objects in the universe.
That's it.
Well,
that's infinitely less than a grain of
sand compared to every beach on Earth or
a drop of water in contrast to the
Pacific Ocean.
But Ethan isn't saying that Yahowah is big,
but instead that God organized, prepared,
thought through,
responded in a systematic way,
in addition to being a great storyteller.
And what's more, Yahowah has a family.
That makes him very rich.
The thirty-first point so far is that no
one is arak comparable to Yahowah.
The thirty-second is false gods are akin
to shachaq, specks of dust.
Thirty-three, Yahowah is arak,
enormously valued, prepared, and orderly.
Thirty-four, Yahowah is damah,
thinking and thinking.
His responses differ from ours.
And thirty-five, Yahowah has many children.
Now, from Ha Ezraki's perspective,
properly establishing Yahowah's credentials
is actually vital to appreciating these
prophecies regarding Dowd.
He continues, therefore,
to share what I've come to know and
respect about Yahowah,
something that you should embrace as well.
God, the Almighty, is highly regarded,
well-respected, inspiring, and awesome.
He is Arats.
He is considered awe-inspiring and
magnificent in the counsel of those with
whom he confides,
earning their confidence, ba sowd,
within the intimate fellowship where there
is a foundation of trust, discretion,
an enclave guided by proper instruction
and grounded in mutual reliance.
Of the set apart one, this Qodeshym again,
of those who are separated and devoted,
tremendously great while inspiring
reverence and respect as almighty God for
all who are surrounding him.
Mizmowr
Psalm eighty nine seven from.
Well, apart from the source,
they would just be words on the page,
of course, reverberations in the air.
But when the source is known and
appreciated.
The message becomes irrefutable.
Indeed, essential.
And so while we in the covenant have
come to know Yahowah this way, we've had,
what,
twenty-five years now of uninterrupted
study?
Well, of only half days.
We only spend twelve to fourteen days,
six to seven days a week doing this,
so we're putting in half days.
But we have also many more prophets.
to bolster our understanding.
And keep in mind,
the initial recipients of this Maskyl,
well, the primary target of it was Dowd.
And at the time of its inscription,
he needed their reassurance that Ethan's
prior twenty-four hundred years with
Yahowah brought to the occasion.
Ethan's first life began six hundred years
after the expulsion from Eden.
So of the insights being delivered by
Ethan,
my favorite thus far is that God is
sowd.
He is around those closest to him.
This means that Yahowah confides in the set
apart.
He shares insights.
He seeks to know our thoughts.
And in this way,
he inspires confidence in us.
And if God's asking us for confidence,
our view on a particular subject if he's
telling us some of his innermost thoughts
if he's sharing his own of his motivations
and what he'd like to accomplish and he's
you know looking for our response to it
confiding really in us doesn't that say a
lot about who we are now clearly he's
saying that about those who are
surrounding him in Shamaym so they have
already gone through this process of the
uh tenfold
empowerment of Bikuwrym times a doubling of
another tenfold empowerment again through
Shabuwah.
So, you know, they're
What we are times ten to maybe the
hundredth power, if you will,
in terms of their capacity.
So they're a little easier for God to
confide in than we would be,
pretty limited here in our three-D
existence.
But that's what we have to look forward
to.
God so confiding.
And those that surround him.
We're not going to just...
have what we have now,
which is God teaching us and protecting
us, enlightening us,
enabling us and empowering us.
But God treating us as worthy
conversationalists, co-explorers,
partners.
I mean, it's an amazing kind of thing.
It's also reassuring that next to
recognizing Yahowah's awesome power,
Ethan wants us to know that he has
vast resources to share.
Yeah.
You might think, okay, well,
it's a really big universe,
two trillion galaxies,
each with a couple of hundred billion
solar systems, each with planets.
You know,
that's a pretty good inheritance.
I mean, imagine, you know,
you're inheriting the entire Earth.
Well, that would be pretty swell.
But the Earth is just one planet around
one star.
in one galaxy when there are two trillion
galaxies and a couple of hundred billion
stars and multiple planets.
You know, it's OK.
That's a lot.
That's really a lot.
And that's nothing.
Not compared.
That's what we can just perceive.
That's the universe is so much bigger than
that.
And what God has to give is so
much more valuable to that.
How about eternal life?
How about being adopted into his family,
being individually enriched in power?
We were talking again during our lunch
meeting today with Perry and with Rich,
this realization that there is so much
that separates us right now between us and
God.
God's a seven-dimensional being.
Here we are stuck in three dimensions.
And if God were to take us as
we are and liberate us into the fourth
dimension more fully in time,
it would instantly kill us.
Now, if you wanted to become immortal,
liberated in time in the fourth dimension,
as you currently are, it would kill you.
It would be painful.
The sounds, the sights, the options,
all of it would be just too overwhelming
for your brain to even be able to
process, your senses to process.
You know,
the only way I can help to give
you some perception of it is imagine that
you were in the flatland of the cell
for a cartoon or a drawing.
You know, my lovely picture behind me,
I love it because, well,
my beloved friend
painted it,
and every time I look at it,
I cherish our relationship.
But it's the old tree in the sea
representing the two things that sort of
define who I am.
And you look at that and you say,
well, it shows a three-dimensional scene,
but it's two dimensions.
And if you were in Flatland here,
you would have no concept of what's here
or here.
And what's here and here would expand the
opportunities and the whole realm of what
you can experience infinitely.
There's an infinite number of these
opportunities.
when you go from two dimensions to three
dimensions.
Now imagine going to four.
Four alone would do us in.
And to be...
equivalent to God,
we have to be taken from three to
four to five to six and into the
seventh dimension.
And that is what he will do when
we reach the point that he can confide
in us.
He's not going to take anybody through
that process, make them immortal,
adding that degree of power until he's
certain that we can be trusted.
We are properly observant that we are
appropriately responsive.
And the most importantly,
we can be trusted.
So that is our goal for ourselves.
And of course,
for all of you to understand that's what
God is looking for.
God himself, he's got that in spades.
God is Emunah.
He is trustworthy.
He is reliable.
He is dependable.
He has integrity.
He is not going to change what he
has said
You can take to the bank.
It is absolutely true.
So Yahowah,
God of the vast array of spiritual
implements,
who and what is comparable to your awesome
power and your extraordinary treasures,
your strength, your value, your riches,
assessing God's credibility and what he
has to offer from Chesan to be treasured
and to offer something of great value,
which are all around you, Yahowah.
including your unwavering commitment to
the truth and unwavering reliability.
So what Ethan is saying is, yeah, okay,
okay, universe big,
you get a large share of the universe.
You can have a thousand galaxies if you
would like them,
maybe even a billion of them per covenant
member.
Swell.
That's not what's the most magnificent,
the eternal life, enrichment, empowerment,
being able to spend time around the
creator of the universe,
the author of life,
a father who can genuinely be trusted,
being loved, appreciated for who you are,
having God confide in you.
I mean, those are far greater treasures,
right?
Just being around somebody that's
consistently honest.
So in a world replete with gods by
all manner of names and depictions,
there is only one true God and his
name is Yahowah.
Unlike the disingenuous men who have
conceived the imposters,
Yah has integrity and he can be validated.
You can prove he proved his existence,
we can verify it.
And in this proclamation,
we find Ethan so comfortable around the
Almighty
He refers to him as Yah.
In my personal conversations with Yahowah,
that's my preference too.
I almost always call him Yah.
Maybe it's a habit born of familiarity
over the past fifty-four hundred years.
This spoke of the tSaba.
They are the heavenly host.
They are comprised of Malakym,
spiritual messengers.
They serve as extensions of Yahowah's
influence in our three-dimensional world.
As a seven-dimensional being,
all of Yahowah will not even fit into
the six-dimensional universe,
much less five dimensions, much less four,
much less the three that we find ourselves
into.
So God, the totality of God,
cannot be as Paul wrote in a man.
That's absurd.
i can't even fit in this planet can't
fit in the solar system can't fit in
this galaxy can't fit in the universe
sorry god is that big he's a
seven-dimensional being it's just like a
three-dimensional being i can't i can't
enter that painting uh no matter how much
i may want to it's impossible for me
to enter that painting
It's impossible for God who is four
dimensions beyond ours to enter three
dimensions.
He can use implements just like I could
use a Crayola and mess up my friend's
picture or a Marks a lot or something
and I could draw on it and I
can speak to it and I can move
it with my finger,
but I can't enter it and I was
in the same situation.
He has Malakym,
spiritual messengers who can interact in
our world and they do.
He has his Ruwach spirit that can empower
and enable people of his choosing,
and he does.
He has a nephesh soul that he can
use as an avatar when he wishes to
do so, and he has in the past.
And God, of course,
has these words that he has inspired that
can filter into our heads and permeate our
lives and shape who we are and our
perceptions of him,
which have great power, great influence.
So as a seven-dimensional being,
Yahowah's chasyn, powers and treasures,
are infinitely beyond anything, of course,
we can imagine,
in three and a half dimensions beneath
him.
And yet God's most valuable gift to man
really is his emunah,
his honesty and reliability.
It's the first thing the religious steal
from him, by the way.
Doesn't do them any good.
You can't steal God's honesty and have
that work for you.
So the thirty-sixth point here is that
Yahowah is arats, highly regarded,
thirty-seven.
God inspires sowd, confidence,
thirty-eight.
Boy, that's really true.
I love that fact that God does.
He inspires confidence.
The more time you spend around Him,
the more confident you are of who He
is and of your relationship with Him.
Yeah, I was so confides in the condition,
those set apart and Shamaym,
something so exciting.
I get antsy just waiting for,
can you imagine, you know,
cause at this point, you know,
I'd be happy just to be, you know,
fly on the wall and Shamaym,
but to think that we're gonna be so
close that God's gonna say, hey, you know,
I think we have an opportunity over here.
What would you like to do?
You want to take it from here.
This is my thoughts.
What are yours?
What a wonderful experience that would be.
Goosebump time.
The Qodeshym set apart are Yare,
respectful, and they revere Yah.
They are found sabyb, surrounding God.
Forty.
Yahowah orchestrates a tsaba,
a vast array of spiritual messengers.
Forty-one.
God is Kamow, incomparable.
Forty-two, Yahowah is a Chessen,
awesomely powerful and abundantly rich.
And by the way,
he wants to give it all away.
Forty-three,
God's sabyb encapsulates us in Emuwnah,
unwavering reliability and
trustworthiness.
He, sabyb
surrounds us with his chasyn strength and
values, empowering and enriching us.
Pretty neat deal.
I'm ready.
So after sharing what he has learned,
this would be what Ethan has learned over
the millennia about Yahowah,
particularly his enduring love and
steadfast commitment to the truth and
interjecting what God had to say about
Dowd, which was powerful,
being the enabler of the covenant,
that's stout, his chosen one, of course,
and his coworker,
Ethan decided to share something of
himself,
revealing how God intends to use him going
forward.
Now,
the reason for this prophetic insertion at
this point in the narrative is to earn
the king's trust.
And another life, ha 'Ezrachy,
will be Yada, the Nakar, the Choter,
and the Adamah Parah.
And he will put it all on the
line in service to Yahowah, to Yahuwdym,
to Dowd, to the Beryth,
on behalf of Yisrael,
the Towrah, and it's Mowedym.
In other words,
he can not only emphasize with the king,
empathizing with the king,
which is important, just like Dowd.
Well, Ethan, under those rules,
he has skin in the game.
That makes a big difference.
You know, when Nathan,
who was very bright,
a prophet spoke for Yahowah, spoke to Dowd.
Yeah, Dowd listened,
but it went on with his life.
He had no influence on him.
Dowd was one of his subjects.
And even as a prophet,
he was just one of his subjects.
But Ethan ha 'Ezrachy
has been out of heaven many times.
And he's going to play a lead role
in supporting Dowd.
He was able to point out to Dowd
all the times,
all the things they had done previously
and all the things they would do in
the future.
And you know,
you're somebody that has skin in the game.
Then you will get the attention of the
person you're talking to no matter what
level of life they're at.
So Ethan ha 'Ezrachy wants the king and the
world to know that God communicates by
painting word pictures.
Remember we read about Ethan ha 'Ezrachy and
the fact that he would write the Thirty
of the Thirty-One Proverbs?
Now,
some of course are more intriguing than
others.
This one is as vivid as it is
prophetic.
It says, you convey...
He's speaking to Yahowah.
Mashal, portraits, comprised of words.
When exercising your authority,
Atah Mashal, you share proverbs,
which are readily remembered as word
pictures, demonstrating how to lead,
how to govern, how to establish dominion.
Gloriously triumphing.
with the surging sea,
agitating by majestically rising or
raising the illustrious and reoccurring
force of the one from the West who
can be abrasive.
By the abrasion associated with the raging
Westerner,
serving as a metaphor for a boisterous and
aggressive goy.
From ga'ah,
to rise up effectively and grow,
productive and victorious.
By lifting up his rolling rocks among the
turbulent waves as a witness,
ba nasa galym huw
By bearing his influential stones
Raising his testimony,
the marking the boundaries of the
agreement and carrying the current of his
relentless seas as foundations.
I'm sure God was laughing as he was
inspiring these words.
I even get a chuckle out of it.
You laud and extol them with,
that would be the rocks, the stones,
with exuberant statements,
commending their value.
eliminating the noise, calming the chaos,
and quieting the situation through them.
You assert which is factually accurate
about them while smoothing out the rough
edges and ending the crisis while showing
restraint and remaining moral.
Piel Perfect, Second Person,
Masculine Singular
Mizmowr psalm eighty nine nine.
And I want to tell you that one.
You better put on your thinking cap if
you're going to get to the beginning and
through and the end of that.
And you have a coherent thought and you
know what God's talking about in terms of
abrasive rocks.
crags, if you will,
in the sea and who the sea is,
where this person is coming from,
why Yahowah is lauding these abrasive rocks
that are tumbling in the sea and therefore
coming up against his land.
What in the world is he talking about?
I know a guy.
I do, too.
But I'll tell you what,
you have to think this one through.
So you convey Mashal portraits.
We already know that when introducing
Ethan ha 'Ezrachy,
God said that he wrote thirty of the
thirty one Mashal word portraits.
We got to this back to this again
because of the final word picture,
the thirty first Mashal.
And so God said,
this is how God likes to work through
these word pictures.
And he doesn't just exercise a manner of
painting these pictures so we can
understand.
He leads through them.
He shares these proverbs because they're
easily remembered and because he can
demonstrate how to govern through them.
So what follows is a word picture,
all right?
So now what your mind should be,
God is painting a picture here of
something that he wants to convey,
which if we're paying attention,
we can come to understand.
Okay,
he then says that what he's speaking of
is glorious.
There's not a lot of things that God's
gonna say is glorious,
but he says it's glorious.
And he says it's triumphant,
which means it's going to prevail.
And he's doing it with the surging sea,
agitating by majestically raising the
illustrious and reoccurring force of the
one for the West who can be abrasive.
Oh, that's quite a word picture there.
What does the sea mean when God speaks
of the sea versus the land?
Goy.
God's going to find someone he, you know,
I was telling, again,
the fellows during our working lunch
today, we had marvelous lamb chops,
by the way, today for lunch.
Too bad you weren't here.
They were on our outdoor patio.
They were really,
really spectacular dishes.
Perry is his first day here, went off,
bought a computer today and on the way
back, picked up lunch and it was good.
So anyway,
we were talking about the nature of how
God succeeds in part because he's willing
to share credit.
They always say there's no limit toward a
person can achieve if they are willing to
share credit.
Well, God is glorious at it.
Now,
God can be in the case of raising
the agitation of the sea and being
effective through this word picture.
God is responsible for ninety nine point
nine nine nine percent of the benefit of
this.
He's directing it.
He is enabling it.
but that's not the way God sees it.
It's so few people that are willing to
work with him, to be responsive to him,
just to go along and be used by
him.
He thinks it's glorious when somebody
contributes.
And even if their contribution is
one-tenth of one percent of the total,
from God's point of view,
it is still glorious,
and it's a triumph to see it happen.
So if you don't like God,
going all over somebody that is...
It's simply agitating as a goy.
Then, well,
he'll speak less of them if there's more
people making a contribution.
All right.
Anyway, he says, this is glorious.
So this word picture I'm painting for you
now is glorious.
And it works.
It triumphs.
That's better than working, right?
And it's brought to you by the sea,
which means it's coming from a gowy.
It agitates.
You know,
what does the sea do when the waves
come into the shore?
It erodes all the rough edges and,
you know,
leaves the soft sand by breaking down all
the roughness, smoothing things out,
if you will.
And so agitating by majestically raising
an illustrious and reoccurring force.
So first of all,
God is sponsoring agitation.
He's not passive.
He's sponsoring agitation.
He wants the surging of the sea.
He's bringing this about.
He says it's glorious.
It's victorious.
And then he says that the person that
he is speaking of here,
that he's drawing this word picture about,
is illustrious and reoccurring.
Well,
that means that he's well-known and he's
been in and out of the picture before.
Remember I've said, well,
we're going to start with Chanowk.
uh i which would be enoch uh we
can go to uh maydode uh during the
uh the exodus we've got obed edom and
ethan ha is rocky here we've got the
ihlu somebody that came to Dowd's rescue
during the uh the time that he was
fulfilling Pesach Matsah mccormand yeah i
was very very thankful for it and uh
so
God's got a guy that does this very
thing.
And while you may not think I do
it very well, God's...
Well,
I think he has a fairly low bar
and that there's not a lot of humans
that are willing to work with them.
And so the very fact you're willing to
work with them, I mean,
that puts you up there in the top
echelon, you know,
kind of one in a million sort of
people, maybe one in a billion.
So that's already a good deal here.
But he's saying this person is well-known
and they're reoccurring and they're a
force to reckon with.
They're kind of bullish individual.
They're from the West and well,
they can be abrasive,
which is what God needs at this time.
It says,
it is by the abrasion associated with the
raging Westerner,
serving as a metaphor for a boisterous and
aggressive goy.
By lifting up his rolling rocks, boy,
this guy's got stones,
among the turbulent waves as a witness.
So God's saying that, you know,
water can be very effective at shaping the
shore.
And, you know,
you look at things like even water running
through canyons,
creating grand canyons and the like.
Water can...
can cut its swath and definitely smooth
out the edges.
But you want something that is associated
with water that is really powerful,
have it pick up some rocks and have
it stir them up and see what happens.
Well,
this last witness that he has is named
Crag.
It means a sharp stone.
And so he's having a field day with
this.
And he says,
"...by lifting up his rolling rocks,
his stones among the turbulent waves as a
witness,
by bearing his influential stones,
raising his testimony."
and demarking the boundaries of the
agreement,
all of these communicated by Gelem and
carrying the current of his relentless
seas as foundations and as fountains.
you laud and extol them.
This is God again.
Yeah.
He is over the top.
Um,
you can tell him that he's gone way
too far and sharing credit and
appreciating this man who is working with
him in this way.
But my guess is God will say,
you know, I'm his dad.
He is my, uh,
he is my kid and, uh,
I'm proud of him.
And so, uh, you know,
just deal with it.
Uh, you know, you want, uh,
To have more people that I will laud
and extol,
then we need more people to make a
contribution, don't we?
So it says, he says,
you laud and extol them.
He's actually speaking of this man from
the West, his stones,
with exuberant statements,
commending their value, eliminating,
because what's going to happen is he
eliminates the noise.
He calms the chaos.
He quiets the situation through them.
We were also talking,
we had quite the working lunch today.
It was kind of a lot of different
subjects, right?
We talked about when ElYah and I return
and how do we know that this soul
that I have goes all the way back
to Enoch.
It's interesting that the two that were
taken in that way are the two that
will reappear.
We talked about coming back with a
different level of power such that
everybody that is opposed,
everybody that's religious,
conspiratorial, anti-Semitic or political,
militant,
patriotic is not going to like what we
have to say.
And we're going to be the most prominent
spokespeople in the world.
We're going to be right there on the
Temple Mount.
We're going to be speaking in every
language, understand every language.
We're going to have a tent of restoring
witness behind us.
We will have removed the Dome of the
Rock and Al-Aqsa Mosque.
We'll have a scroll above us that is
positioned by Yahowah.
Yahowah will have his malak lift up the
tablets of stone and point out things
about them.
And they will do everything they can to
kill us.
And it'll be just like, ugh, come
Got a nuclear bomb.
What do you want to try?
Let's try something else.
I mean, that wasn't even irritating.
And when we're involved in conversations
and somebody just becomes annoying,
you can wink, you can snap your fingers,
you can point or not even do any
of that.
Just think them gone and they're gone.
I mean, just literally vaporized.
So we're going to calm a lot of
the noise.
We're going to smooth out and eliminate
the chaos that will be here.
We're going to bring a sense of quiet
to Jerusalem.
So even before Yahowah eliminates all of
those who have come,
what we'll find is during that time we're
here,
while Yisra'el will still be plundered by
the Muslim terrorists,
There'll be a quiet zone right around
Jerusalem,
a place where you'll be able to hear
this message.
And it's because of the way that Yahowah
is going to assert himself factually
through these stones and this surging
Westerner,
the aggressive Westerner that will quiet
the situation.
People will be able to hear.
So to appreciate...
Ethan's Mashal, word picture.
We must begin with the recognition that he
is painting the future with words.
In the first of them,
ge'uth is typically portrayed positively,
even though it does have a dark side
like most Hebrew words.
To be ge'uth is to be glorious and
majestic.
with such high status that the individual
is surrounded in splendor.
God likes this guy.
It is to be lifted up as illustrious,
well-known and not infamous,
but illustrious.
It can convey the ideas of a raging
and surging sea that is agitating and
abrasive, the things that God likes.
God is not looking for humble and modest
and weak and those kinds of things.
He likes agitating and abrasive.
That's his style, particularly now.
So when properly directed in the manner of
the Mashal, these are all good things.
Even though geuwth can on occasion be
rendered as pride,
since the actual root is gara,
to rise up effectively and grow
productively, the positive aspects,
and particularly in this concept of its
etymology, well,
they greatly outweigh the minor negatives.
Therefore, Ethan is crediting Yahowah.
with painting a prophetic picture using to
say that a Gowy from the West representing
the roaring sea will rise up from it
and agitate the religious and political as
he grows ever more productive and
caressing those within the land who are
receptive.
He will surge forth in illustrious
fashion,
while noted for his abrasiveness and his
assertiveness,
being relentless like the constant banter
of the waves upon the shore.
Based upon God's story,
as ha 'Ezrachy has lived and experienced it
through the millennia, this speaks,
of course, of the Nakry,
the observant foreigner.
deployed by Yahowah to approach the land as
a reoccurring force with the ferocity to
erode the stature of the rebellious when
gently lapping at the feet of the
responsive.
One way or another,
the sea will garner the attention of God's
people who are residing within the land.
Now in this regard,
there is only one Gowy,
symbolic of the one coming out of the
sea,
who is slated to play a starring role
in doing for Yisrael what he is currently
accomplishing on behalf of Dowd,
restoring the relationship.
He is indeed Ha nakry,
the observant foreigner.
He is Obed-Edom, the one serving mankind.
As the man from Edom,
who Isaiah in the sixty-third chapter
tells us saves many in the end.
He is Yada, the one who,
after restoring Yahowah's name,
does reputation,
prepares the mortal remnant of Yisrael for
the king's return.
So then in that follow-on statement,
the second in that passage that I have
just shared with you, it is Yahowah.
who is Nasa, lifting up,
bearing and carrying the galym,
which is plural in this case.
And this portrayal, galym huw,
could mean all manner of things from his
rough waves to his boundary stones marking
territory,
from his witness and testimony
to his most impactful stones,
even stormy seas which burst forth like
fountains.
And since gal is from galal and means
to roll or to move out of the
way,
this narrows the possibilities such that
this relentless and often abrasive man
from the West is going to be removing
the trash, pulverizing it.
It's a trash compactor of religious ideas.
How about that?
By using his galym in this way,
whether as roaring waves, stormy seas,
boundary stones,
witnesses to the agreement are impactful
rocks.
The picture is that of the illustrious and
formidable Gowy being deployed with another
or such that he represents more than one
of these metaphors.
And by Nasa raising them up and bearing
them, Yahowah was able to shabach hem ,
laud and extol the result with exuberant
statements,
commending the value of bringing an end to
the shrieking and to the chaos.
It's quite a picture, isn't it?
God's good at this.
The rolling rocks in the surging waves of
the sea will smooth the jagged shore for
a better approach.
And recognizing how hostile Jews have been
towards Yahowah, this is sensible.
Truth be known, at the moment,
even Dowd was a little rough around the
edges and he needed some smoothing too,
didn't he?
And in this regard,
there is a sense of showing restraint,
which is really important,
while remaining moral,
all conveyed by shabach .
And that's applicable in this situation
with God resolving his problem with Dowd
and the religious prior to his return by
working through this man and not making a
scene.
God can stay in heaven, as he said,
until his people return to him because he
has deployed an agitator.
We are aware that Dowd had more than
his share of foes, and as did Yisrael.
The most debilitating has been the Jewish
propensity to be religious and political
rather than embrace the relationship that
Yahowah intended.
It is evident that Yisrael was
carted these attitudes out of Mitsraym
and never forsook them.
Their downfall began with the golden calf,
but then metastasized through the oral
Towrah and then the Talmud.
Recognizing how prevalent religion and
politics had become among the Israelites,
particularly in the wake of Sha'uwl's demon
possession and the impending Absalom coup
against Dowd
It was important for Ethan to calm the
raw nerves,
to restore trust in Yahowah's ability to
subdue even the most prevalent threats to
the covenant.
And in this regard,
since it's apparent that the previous
attestation plays into this one,
I'll bring them together,
but this is going to be a cliffhanger
because we're going to a place I could
not have imagined.
And we're going to learn something about
what's occurring today that will
absolutely stimulate all the neurons in
your mind.
Now we're at a,
hour and twenty minutes at this point.
My lovely wife gave me a reference.
She says, you know, Mizmowr,
one thirty nine has another reference to
the golem.
OK, well, you know, I
Pretty good.
Just hang there for a moment.
Let me go find my Hebrew edition of
Ms.
I'll be right on that.
You just stay put.
I'll be back with you shortly.
Thank you, Leah.
Maybe we could have saved that for after
the show, but that's okay.
Well, now you know how we communicate.
My wife does not, you know,
she always accuses me of not being able
to keep a secret.
The moment I know something,
I'm going to share it with you.
Well, look at her.
She's, oh, now I know it.
I know it.
Now you're going to know it.
There you go.
Thank you for listening.
I enjoyed being able to deliver this
information to you.
I can assure you that our next program
is going to open with a bang.
You'll be amazed with what God has to
say.
And thank you for sticking with me through
that last word picture.
It was complicated,
but I think the visuals now are something
that you can appreciate and how Yahowah
paints pictures with words.
You have a great evening.
We'll talk tomorrow.
Hey there, thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.